=head1 NAME

 Data::Gerber


=cut

=head1 SYNOPSIS

	my $gerb = Data::Gerber->new();
	
	$gerb->format( 'zero' => 'L', 'coordinates' => 'A', 
		       'format'	=> { 'integer'	=> 2, 'decimal'	=> 4 } );
 	
	$gerb->mode('IN');
	
	$gerb->aperture( 'code' => 'D11', 'type' => 'C', 'modifiers' => '0.0100' );
	
	my $aper = $gerb->aperture( 'code' => 'D11' );
	
	$gerb->function( 'aperture' => 'D11' );
	$gerb->function( 'func' => 'G01', 'coord' => 'X010000Y010000', 'op' => 'D01' )
	$gerb->function( 'func' => 'M02' );
	

=cut

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Data::Gerber provides the capabilities to represent a series of RS-274X (commonly
referred to as Gerber data) instructions in an object-oriented way, with
methods and sub-classes for performing common activities such as:

B<This Module is currently in "alpha" state and may contain numerous bugs or 
have partial implementations of the spec.  Do not use in production systems.>

=over 8

=item Parsing Data from Files via L<Gerber::Parser>

=item Writing Data to Files via L<Gerber::Writer>

=item Determining Boundaries of Drawn Data

=item Basic Translations and Conversions of Data

=back


=cut

=head1 METHODS


=cut

=head2 new

Constructor, creates a new instance of the class.
 
 	my $gerb = Gerber->new();


=cut

=head2 error

Returns the last set error, or undef if no error has been set
 

=cut

=head2 ignoreInvalid( FLAG )

Set or read the IgnoreInvalid flag.
 
When the IgnoreInvalid flag is set to any true value, any invalid or deprecated
G-Codes or parameters will be ignored. When this flag is set to any false value
an error will be generated.
 
The default flag value is 0, or false.
 
This method sets the flag if a flag argument is provided, or just reads the
flag if the flag argument is not provided.  This method always returns the
current flag value, after any set operation.
 

=cut

=head2 ignoreBlank( FLAG )

Set or read the IgnoreBlank flag.
 
When the IgnoreBlank flag is set to any true value any drawing by a completely
closed aperture (commonly used for comments, borders, etc.), after setting the
flag, will be ignored when calculating the bounding box and size of the 
drawing area.
 
The default flag value is 0, or false.
 
This method sets the flag if a flag argument is provided, or just reads the
flag if the flag argument is not provided.  This method always returns the
current flag value, after any set operation.
 

=cut

=head2 aperture( OPTS )

Add or Get a custom aperture, defined by OPTS.
 
=over 8

=item Getting an Aperture that Has Been Defined

To get an aperture that has already been defined, provide only the 'code' 
key in OPTS, specifying the D-Code to retrieve, e.g.:
 
 	my $apt = $gerb->aperture( 'code' => 'D11' );
 	
If the specified D-Code is found, a hashref will be returned with the following
format:
 
 	{
 	
 	  'code'      => D-code for aperture,
 	  'type'      => Aperture type (built-in or macro name)
 	  'modifiers' => String containing list of modifiers (if set)
 	  'diameter'  => diameter in format units (circle type only)
 	  
 	}

If the specified D-Code is not found, an empty hash ref will be returned.
 
If an invalid D-Code is specified, undef will be returned and the error will
be set.
 
=item Creating an Aperture Definition

To create an aperture definition, you must provide at a minimum the following 
keys:
 
 	code	=> the D-code to use for this aperture
 	type	=> the type of aperture (C, R, O, P or aperture macro name)
 	
Additionally, you may optionally supply a 'modifiers' key which provides
any required modifiers.
 
Returns true (1) on success, or undef and sets the error on error.
 
For example:
 
 	if( ! $gerb->aperture( 'code' => 'D11', 'type' => 'C', 'modifiers' => 0.0100 ) ) {
 		die $gerb->error();
 	}

=back


=cut

=head2 apertures

Get All Defined Apertures 

Returns a hashref with the following structure:

    {
        aperture_code1 => {
            'type'       => Aperture type code or macro name
            'modifiers' => string containing list of modifiers,
            'diameter'   => diameter of circle in 'format' units (circle type only)
        },
        aperture_code2 => { ... },
        aperture_code3 => { ... },
        ...
    }
    

=cut

=head2 mode( MODE )

Set or get the mode (units) for commands.  The default mode is inches (IN).
 
If MODE is not specified, returns the current mode for the document without
making any changes.  
 
MODE can be one of:
 
IN (inches) or MM (millimeters)
  
Returns the specified mode if successful, or undef and sets the error if an error
occurs.
 
 		# set mode
 	if( ! $gerb->mode('MM') ) {
 		die $gerb->error();
 	}
 	
 		# get mode
 	my $mode = $gerb->mode();
 	
 	

=cut

=head2 macro( MACRO_NAME, MACRO_DEF )

Set or get an aperture macro definition.

To get an existing macro definition, simply provide the name of the macro
as MACRO_NAME.  In this form, an arrayref will be returned specifying each
line of the macro definition or undef if no such definition is found.

To set, or overwrite an existing macro, also provide an arrayref as MACRO_DEF
with one element per line in the definition.

To set an aperture macro, provide the full macro definition string.


e.g.:

    $gerb->macro('FOO', [ "0,1,2,3,4", "5,6,7,8" ] );
    
        # returns [  "0,1,2,3,4", "5,6,7,8" ]
    my $macro = $gerb->macro('FOO');

    

=cut

=head2 macros

Get all set macros

Returns a hashref with following structure:

    {
        macroName1 => [ def ],
        macroName2 => [ def ],
        ...
    }
    

=cut

=head2 format( OPTS )

Set or retrieve the Format Specification for this object.
 
B<It is highly recommended to set the Format Specification first, before
attempting to add commands, as the format has an impact on how certain
area operations are performed> 
 
=over 8

=item Retrieve Format Specification

To retrieve the format specification for this Gerber object, call the format
method with no arguments, which will return the following hash reference:
 
 	{
 		'zero'		=> zero truncating setting
 		'coordinates' 	=> coordinate mode
 		'format'	=> {
 			'integer'	=> # of integer places
 			'decimal'	=> # of decimal places
 		}
 	}
 	
 
 
=item Set Format Specification

To set the format specification, pass a set of hash keys and values as the 
argument to the method. 
 
The following hash keys are supported:
 
=over 8

=item zero

The zero omission setting, must be one of either L or T. (Representative of
'leading' and 'trailing' zero omission.) Any word that begins
with L or T will function, which can be useful to write more readable code. The
following are all equivalent:  
 
 	'zero' => 'L'
 	'zero' => 'Lead'
 	'zero' => 'Leading'
 	
=item coordinates

Which coordinate system to use, must be one of either A or I. (Representative
of 'absolute' or 'incremental' coordinates.)  Any word that begins with either 
A or I will function, which can be useful to write more readable code.  The 
following at all equivalent:
 
 	'coordinates' => 'A'
 	'coordinates' => 'Abs'
 	'coordinates' => 'Absolute'
 
B<DO NOT USE INCREMENTAL COORDINATES>

The use of incremental coordinates is strongly discouraged in the spec, and this
module does not fully support them. Many features will not work properly with
incremental coordinates.  Simply put: do not use incremental coordinates.
 
Incremental coordinates are not to be confused with modality of coordinates.
Full coordinate modality, as compliant with the spec, is supported.


=item format

The format of distances and values used in commands.  As the specification
requires that both X and Y format be the same, this module does not provide
the ability to distinguish between the two.  
 
The format of this entry is a hash reference, with the 'integer' and 
'decimal' keys specifying the precision of integers and decimals in all numbers.

For example:
 
 	'format' => {
 		'integer' => 5,
 		'decimal' => 6
 	}
 	
Note that 7 is the maximum format value.
 
=back

Setting the format returns true (1) if successful, or returns undef and sets
the error message in case of failure.
 
Example of setting the format specification:
 
	 if( ! $gerb->format( 'zero' => 'L', 'coordinates' => 'A', 'format' =>
	     { 'integer' => 5, 'decimal' => 5 } ) ) {
    
	     die $gerb->error();
	 }

You may specify any combination of specification values per call.
 
=back



=cut

=head2 function( OPTS )

Add a function to the document.
 
Standard functions supported:

=over 8

=item Aperture Select

=item G-Codes

=item Moves

=item Repeatable Parameter Calls

=back

OPTS is a hash that provides one or more of the following keys, which define
the function:
 
=over 8
=item aperture
Select the aperture to use for following functions
 
=item func

Function Code (i.e. G-Codes)
 
=item coord

Coordinate Data
 
=item op

Operation Code (i.e. D-Code)

=item param

Special parameter which can be repeated multiple times (e.g. LP, SR)
 
=item comment

A comment (used only with G04/G4, if you specify a comment for a non-G04
command, it may be useful in certain file writers that would automatically
generate a new comment for you)

=back

You can specify any combination which represents a valid function in Gerber
notation, e.g.: func, coord, and op; coord and op, func; aperture; param
 
Note that if you specify an aperture or param key, all other keys are ignored.
 
The following are all valid function calls (presuming that you have already
defined the apertures indicated, etc.):
 
 	$gerb->function( 'func' => 'G01', 'coord' => 'X001000Y001000', 'op' => 'D01' );
 	$gerb->function( 'func' => 'G01' );
 	$gerb->function( 'aperture' => 'D13' );
 	$gerb->function( 'coord' => 'Y-300', 'op' => 'D03' );
 	$gerb->function( 'func' => 'G04', 'comment' => 'My Comment' );
 	
This method returns true (1) upon success, and undef and sets the error message 
on error.
 
=over 8

=item Notes on Sequence

This library handles gerber data in a streaming fashion - that is, function
sequences must be issued in the same order they would be issued in a file, as
previous functions impact the interpretation of current functions. 
 
All of your aperture, macro, and format specification activities should be
done before creating functions.

=back


=cut

=head2 functions( OPTS )

Count number of functions, or retrieve one or more functions.
 
When called with no arguments, this method returns all functions that have
been added the document.
 
OPTS is a hash with any of the following keys:

=over 8

=item count

Count number of functions in the document

=item num

Retrieve one function, the numth in the document (zero-indexed)

=back

Examples:
 
 	my  $fCount = $gerb->functions( 'count' => 1 );
 	my $3rdFunc = $gerb->functions( 'num' => 2 );
 	my   @funcs = $gerb->functions();
 	
This method returns undef, and sets the error message if an error occurs.
 


=cut

=head2 boundingBox

Returns the coordinates of a box which exactly holds the entire contents.
 
The result is an array with four elements, representing the Left-most X, Bottom-most
Y, Right-most X, and Top-Most Y.
 
When considered as tuples of X, Y and corners, the first tuple would represent
the bottom-left corner, and the second the top-right.
 
e.g.:
 
 	my ($lx, $by, $rx, $ty) = $gerb->boundingBox();
 	
 		# ex: 0, 0, 53.7, 123.0056
 	
All values are floats, in the units specified by the format spec.
 	

=cut

=head2 width 

Returns the width of the bounding box, in native units as a decimal.
 
 	my $width = $gerb->width();


=cut

=head2 height 

Returns the height of the bounding box, in native units as a decimal.
 
 	my $height = $gerb->height();


=cut

=head2 convert( NEW_OBJECT )

Translate the current gerber object instructions into a new type of gerber object,
based on format, units, etc.  NEW_OBJECT should be an initialized Data::Gerber
object, with the format/unit/etc parameters specified. 

After completion, NEW_OBJECT will represent the same functions and parameters as
the current Gerber object, translated to the new set of formats.
 
Standard functions supported:

=over 8

=item Aperture Select

=item G-Codes

=item Moves

=item Repeatable Parameter Calls

=back

B<Warning: No Support for Aperture Macros!>

=back


=cut

=head1 AUTHOR

 C. A. Church
 MacroFab, Inc.
 
=head1 SEE ALSO

 L<The Gerber File Format Specification|http://www.ucamco.com/files/downloads/file/3/the_gerber_file_format_specification.pdf>
 

=cut

